# Fake Data Generation for your demo projects

## Introduction

This project generates synthetic data for user profiles, products, and financial transactions. It uses the Faker library to create realistic-looking fake data and DuckDB to manage and query the data. You can run the data generation and analysis within a Docker container or locally on your machine. The data generated is saved in CSV files and then imported into a DuckDB database for further querying and analysis.

You can perform SQL joins because data is generated by considering relations between its tables. 

You can also run any other pandas, polars or Spark processing with the available csvs. Don't worry

## Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop (if using the Docker)
- Python 3.9 (if running locally)
- `pip` (if running locally)
- Make (optional, for simplified commands)

## Setup and Usage

### Using Docker

1. **Build the Docker Image**

   First, you need to build the Docker image that contains all the necessary dependencies. Run the following command in your terminal:

```sh
   make build
   ```

2. **Run the Docker Container**
    Once the image is built, you can run the container with:

```sh
   make run
```
  Optional: you can run this command to have the csvs available in your local if using Docker.

```sh
   make csvs
``` 

   This will generate the fake data and output csv and the duckdb database to have available in your machine.

3. **Access the DuckDB Database**
    After running the container, you are inside the DuckDB database from within the container or copy the database file to your local machine for further analysis.

    You can run any queries you like. For example:

```sh
    SELECT * FROM user_profiles LIMIT 5;

    SELECT DISTINCT product_name, category
    FROM products
    LEFT JOIN transactions ON products.product_id = transactions.product_id
    LIMIT 5;

    SELECT DISTINCT product_name, category, user_id, transaction_type, amount
    FROM products
    LEFT JOIN transactions ON products.product_id = transactions.product_id
    LIMIT 5;
```

    To exit the DuckDB shell, use Ctrl+C or Ctrl+D.

4. **Clean the container**

   This command will remove the container, the image and any files that were copied:

```sh
   make clean
   ```

### Running Locally

1. **Install requirements.txt**
```sh
   pip install requirements.tzt
```
2. **Generate Data**
```sh
   export NUM_RECORDS=1000  # Adjust the number as needed
    python3 generate_data.py
```
3. **Access DuckDB Database**
```sh
duckdb fakedata_duckdb.db 
```
You can run the following queries to explore the data:

### Output Format
The script generates the following output files:

- user_profiles.csv: Contains user profile data.
- products.csv: Contains product data.
- transactions.csv: Contains financial transaction data.

These CSV files are then imported into a DuckDB database named fakedata_duckdb.db, with tables corresponding to each CSV file.

### Notes
- Ensure that you have appropriate permissions to run Docker commands or access the local directories.
- Adjust the number of records and other parameters in the generate_data.py script as needed for your use case.

## Follow me on Linkedin
- Get tips, learnings and tricks for your Data career!

## Subscribe to The Pipe & The Line
- Join the Substack newsletter to get similar content to this one and more to improve your Data career! 